# Loan_Payment_Prediction
ML and Statistics to aboard the problem of payment of loans from a Kaggle database, comparing between Random Forests and Logistic Regression.

Using LendingClub.com Loan data (2007-2010) from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/vahidehdashti/loan-prediction-case-study-dt-rf/data), methods of Supervised Machine Learning of  Random Forest (RF) are made in order to predict the outcomes and probabilities of paying completely the loans.

The RF was made in Python. It was made in order to predict more accurately the loan payment failure. Working with the independent variables being credit.policy: 1= if the customer meets the credit underwriting criteria of LendingClub.com, and 0= otherwise; purpose: The purpose of the loan (takes values "credit_card", "debt_consolidation", "educational", "major_purchase", "small_business", and "all_other"); int.rate: The interest rate of the loan, as a proportion (a rate of 11% would be stored as 0.11). Borrowers judged by LendingClub.com to be more risky are assigned higher interest rates; installment: The monthly installments owed by the borrower if the loan is funded; log.annual.inc: The natural log of the self-reported annual income of the borrower; dti: The debt-to-income ratio of the borrower (amount of debt divided by annual income); fico: The FICO credit score of the borrower; days.with.cr.line: The number of days the borrower has had a credit line; revol.bal: The borrower's revolving balance (amount unpaid at the end of the credit card billing cycle); revol.util: The borrower's revolving line utilization rate (the amount of the credit line used relative to total credit available); inq.last.6mths: The borrower's number of inquiries by creditors in the last 6 months; delinq.2yrs: The number of times the borrower had been 30+ days past due on a payment in the past 2 years; pub.rec: The borrower's number of derogatory public records (bankruptcy filings, tax liens, or judgments).  (DESCRIPTION OBTAINED FROM KAGGLE).

The process was simple, firstly the data was transformed (factors and dummy variables were created, labeling, etc). It can be noted that dataset was a little imbalanced (16% of the cases were that the loan was not totally paid), thus probably affecting the model, so a process of oversampling was made, and also scaling of numerical variables. After that,  the data was explored, and finally,  the model was created and the metrics evaluation of the model was checked, too.

Altough RF methods come up with great predictions, the process of generating insights can be less powerful than linear models (a logistic model will be added to enrich this work), but also, RF of sklearn can bring a proxy of variable importance with "feature_importances_", resulting with the most important variables on the model such as: monthly installments, annual income, debt to income ratio, days with credit line, revobal and revol util and the interest rate. These results make sense, but it is a proxy of importance, it is worth noting that making a Logistic Regression could be better at gaining insights of how the variables affects the loan payment.

